Add community engagement guidelines, reorganize Contributors section (#705)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: contributors/contributors/social-engagement-guidelines.md

# Social Engagement Guidelines

This playbook outlines the processes and practices used to engage with the Mattermost community across social community channels.

## Goal

Improve the Mattermost brand by responding to all Mattermost mentions and questions asked online in a timely manner.

## Principles

> 1. **Earn Trust** - Take actions that maximize the trust of others. Be empathetic, consistent, knowledgeable and truthful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Earn Trust:** Take actions that maximize the trust of others. Be empathetic, consistent, knowledgeable, and truthful.
```

## General Guidelines

*Adopted from https://handbook.mattermost.com/contributors/contributors/community-playbook#response-writing-tips*

Ultimately, when responding to users you should always keep the Golden Rule in mind -- if you were the person on the other end, how would you want someone to respond to you?

1. **Be professional**

* Maintain professionalism in your responses, as you are speaking as a member of the company. Avoid slang or colloquialisms that may not translate well across other languages.

> * Do not use humour in your responses, as it can be received in the wrong way by the community. Instead, stay factual when answering questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not use humor in your responses, as it can be received in the wrong way by the community. Instead, stay factual when answering questions.
```

2. **Don't answer if unsure**

* Ask someone who knows the answer instead of replying with an assumption or incomplete understanding.

> * Don't be afraid to reroute if you don't have the answer and are having trouble figuring it out. A good place to start is the [Mattermost peer-to-peer help channel](https://community-release.mattermost.com/core/channels/peer-to-peer-help)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Don't be afraid to reroute if you don't have the answer and are having trouble figuring it out. A good place to start is the [Mattermost peer-to-peer help channel](https://community-release.mattermost.com/core/channels/peer-to-peer-help).
```

> 3. **Choose over-communication vs under-communication**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Choose over-communication vs. under-communication**
```

* Avoid excuses like “we’re busy” or “our team is small."

6. **Do your best to link documentation as answers**

* Links to documentation allow answers to be easily updated dynamically as documentation is updated.
* Any questions that should be answered in docs that aren’t should turn into [tickets to create that documentation](https://github.com/mattermost/docs/issues) (with a link to the ticket included in the response).

7. **Keep community end-user information secure**

* If you come across a post that includes the person's IP address, domain name, or other information you think should not be disclosed publicly, edit the post to remove this information. Then click the hide revision button so that your edits won't be visible to others on the forum.

8. **Be welcoming and thankful**

* When asking someone to take action, use "Would you be open to..." instead of "Would you like to...".
* Communities really respond well to being praised and thanked for their work.

## Community Forums

Below are guidelines or processes for specific forums we engage with the Mattermost community:

### Twitter

**Intended Outcomes**

> 1. **Likes and loves:** Every promoter feels appreciated (like, heart, etc.) and we have acknowledgement to the best content (re-tweet, quoted re-tweet, mention, shout out, replies, * humor, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Likes and loves:** Every promoter feels appreciated (like, heart, etc.) and we have acknowledged the best content (re-tweet, quoted re-tweet, mention, shout out, replies, * humor, etc.)
```

> 2. **Listening and respond:** Everyone with a relevant question gets a reply in 1 business day (except trolls)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Listening and respond:** Everyone with a relevant question gets a reply in 1 business day (except trolls).
```

**Workflow**

1. Monitor [Twitter channel in Mattermost Contributors Team](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/twitter) and [this search query](https://twitter.com/search?q=mattermost&src=typed_query&f=live).
2. Respond to questions, retweet, and like posts that we are tagged in per the guidelines outlined above.
* For product inquiries you are uncertain how to answer, you may escalate by at-mentioning `@pmteam` in the Twitter channel header.
3. Update posts in the Twitter channel with action taken.
* React with `:heart:` if you liked the post.
* React with `:repeat:` if you retweeted the post.
* React with `:no_entry_sign:` if you took no action.

**Response writing tips**

1. **Avoid acronyms.** Avoid acronyms when possible. For example, say "pull request" instead of "PR", since only a subset of tweet readers are active GitHub users.
2. **Use the active voice.** Avoid "has", "was", "have been" when possible. For example, instead of "Hackfest has started!" say "Hackfest starts now!"
3. **Include at most one link.** To provide a clear call to action, include at most one link per tweet and place it near the end of the tweet.

> 4. **Use exclamation marks only for exciting announcements.** An exclamation mark can be used when the announcement is exciting, but using an exclamation mark should be avoided when it can be confused with a signal for cthe ommunity to panic, e.g. "Security update released!".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Use exclamation marks only for exciting announcements.** An exclamation mark can be used when the announcement is exciting, but using an exclamation mark should be avoided when it can be confused with a signal for the community to panic, e.g. "Security update released!".
```

**Sample responses**

1. Asks for more information such as a preview of our product.
* *Thank you for your interest in Mattermost. You can learn more about us at www.mattermost.com where you can also download a trial of our product.*
2. Asks for a specific feature or group of features.
* **Multiple Feature Requests:** *Thank you for the suggestions @username. Would you be open to contributing them in the feature idea forum so they can be discussed and upvoted by the community? You get 10 votes in the feature idea forum, and each one influences the future of the project. https://mattermost.uservoice.com/*
* **Single Feature Request:** *Thank you for the suggestion @username. Would you be open to contributing it in the feature idea forum so it can be discussed and upvoted by the community? You get 10 votes in the feature idea forum, and each one influences the future of the project. https://mattermost.uservoice.com/*

> * **Planned Feature Request:** *Thank you for your feedback. We are excited to share that [feature] will be available in our [edition] Edition soon. Please see our forum post for more information: [link to forum post].*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Planned Feature Request:** *Thank you for your feedback. We're excited to share that [feature] will be available in our [edition] Edition soon. Please see our forum post for more information: [link to forum post].*
```

* **Shipped Feature Request:** Thank you for your feedback. Mattermost already supports [feature]. You can learn more about it in our documentation: [link to docs].
3. Feedback about their experience, not specific to a feature or a product.

> * *Appreciate the feedback. If your team has suggestions on how to improve Mattermost, we would love to hear more in our feature proposal forum. You get 10 votes there, and each one influences the future of the project: https://mattermost.uservoice.com/* or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Appreciate the feedback. If your team has suggestions on how to improve Mattermost, we'd love to hear more in our feature proposal forum. You get 10 votes there, and each one influences the future of the project: https://mattermost.uservoice.com/* or
```
